Cream Sugar and Butter with Kitchenaid

1. Start with butter at room temperature. It should feel like a ripe peach—soft enough that you could break a stick of it in half without a big snap. If the butter is mushy and shiny, put it back in the fridge for a bit. If it's hard and cold, cut it into pieces and let soften more. You can also cut it into pieces and give it a few turns in the mixer to speed up the process.

2. Use a cool bowl. If your butter seems just a little too warm or if the room is very warm, wrap a cold gel-pack (the kind designed for icing sore knees) around the bowl for the first minute or so of mixing.

3. Add sugar. Add the sugar then start the mixer at low speed. When the sugar is incorporated, increase the speed (to medium-high on a stand mixer, high on a hand mixer).

4. After one minute, it should be well-combined but dense. Scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula every minute or so to ensure even creaming. You can increase the speed again now. (If you are creaming a small amount, keep the speed at medium-high to avoid smearing everything on the sides.)

5. After two minutes, it's getting lighter
If you look closely at the little darker bit stuck on the middle of the beater (the bit that I missed in my scrape-down), you can see that the mixture has lightened in color.

6. After three minutes
It's getting closer, but when scraping down, it may still remind you of wet sand or cement mix, kind of heavy and dense.

7. After almost four minutes
The mixture is looking full, almost puffy, on the sides of the bowl. It's very close to being done but will still be a bit heavy when you scrape it down.

8. After four to five minutes, it's creamed
Now when scraping down the sides, your mixture shouldn't feel as dense. This is what the cookbooks mean by "lighter in color and texture."

9. The result
The amount of time this process takes varies depending on the speed of the mixer, the temperature of the butter, and the volume you are working with. If your recipe calls for an egg after the "creaming butter" step, the mixture will fluff up even more.

http://sweets.seriouseats.com/2010/02/how-to-cream-butter-and-sugar-baking-techniques-slideshow-slideshow.html#show-71638