Ingredients
134.7 grams (4 3/4 ounces) all-purpose flour, approximately 1 cup
134.7 grams (4 3/4 ounces) whole-wheat flour, approximately 1 cup
3 grams (1/2 teaspoon) baking soda
4 grams (1 teaspoon) baking powder
6.4 grams (1 teaspoon) salt
40 grams (3 tablespoons) sugar
3 whole eggs, beaten
56.7 grams (2 ounces) unsalted butter, melted ( 1/4 cup)
453.6 grams (16 ounces) buttermilk, room temperature (2 cups)
Vegetable spray, for waffle iron


Directions
1. Pull out eggs, butter and buttermilk and leave out for 20 minutes to bring to room temperature

2. In a medium bowl whisk together the flours, soda, baking powder, salt, and sugar. 

3. In another bowl beat together eggs and melted butter, and then add the buttermilk. 

4. Add the wet ingredients to the dry and stir until just combined. DON'T STIR IT TOO MUCH. SERIOUSLY DO YOU WANT TO MAKE YOUR WAFFLES LESS DELICIOUS? 

5. Preheat waffle iron according to manufacturer's directions. Allow batter to rest for 5 minutes.

6. Ladle the recommended amount of waffle batter onto the iron according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Close iron top and cook until the waffle is golden on both sides and is easily removed from iron. Serve immediately or keep warm in a 200 degree F oven until ready to serve.

ref: http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/alton-brown/basic-waffle-recipe/index.html

Notes: Made this one time and halved it (only put in one egg). Did not have whole wheat flour but it came out well.

Notes from last time: Made it with the buttermilk and whole wheat flour. Didn't taste as eggy or sweet which I missed. I credit this to the whole wheat flour covering up some of the egg and sugar taste.


Notes from another time making it: Used whole-wheat flour, 1 3/4 cups of milk and 1/2 teaspoon of vanilla. Came out quite nice. DON'T STIR IS TOO MUCH.

Notes for another time making it: Used the whole-wheat flour, and vanilla and a package of blueberries and subsituted honey for the sugar. The honey for the sugar didn't seem to work as well (less sweet taste and hard to get evenly distributed). The blueberries seemed to work fine though perhaps would explode less if they were frozen. Should research recommendations.


Sift dry ingredients


Notes: Doesn't flow into the waffle iron very well. Maybe it would be better if we increased the liquid to dry ratio?