7 Layer Dip

"A no-bake Tex-Mex dip for chips done in layers in a shallow dish."
Ingredients
1 (16 ounce) can refried beans
1 (1.25 ounce) package taco seasoning mix
1 large tomato, seeded and chopped
1 cup guacamole
 
1 cup sour cream, room temperature
1 cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese
1/2 cup chopped green onions
1/4 cup chopped black olives
Directions

1. Warm refried beans and mix with 1/2 cup greak yogurt and 1/4 cup cheese.
2. Spread over bottom of pan
4. Spread greek yogurt  over pan 
5. Layer guacamole
6. Layer Mexican cheese (thicker shred is better)
7. thinly diced onions. green onions, cilantro or pico de gallo
8. Layer Black Olives

Should go in about half the size of a 13/9 pan unless you double it.




1. Spread refried beans in the bottom of a (1-quart) shallow edged serving dish (you can use a transparent dish if you'd like). Sprinkle the seasoning packet over the beans. Layer the diced tomatoes over the beans, the sour cream over the tomatoes, and the guacamole over the sour cream. Sprinkle the entire layered dip with cheddar cheese, followed by green onion and finishing it off with a layer of black olives. Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve.


"My mom's Seven Layer Dip is a big hit at all small gatherings! Refried beans are layered with guacamole, seasoned sour cream, veggies and cheese. It's perfect for dipping tortilla chips! The dip traditionally takes less time to disappear into bellies than it does to prepare."
Ingredients
2 avocados - peeled, pitted and diced
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lime juice
1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro
1/4 cup salsa
garlic salt to taste
ground black pepper to taste
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
 
1 (1 ounce) package taco seasoning mix
4 roma (plum) tomatoes, diced
1 bunch green onions, finely chopped
1 (16 ounce) can refried beans
2 cups shredded Mexican-style cheese blend
1 (2.25 ounce) can black olives - drained and finely chopped
Directions
In a medium bowl, mash the avocados. Mix in lime juice, cilantro, salsa, garlic salt and pepper.
In a small bowl, blend the sour cream and taco seasoning.
In a 9x13 inch dish or on a large serving platter, spread the refried beans. Top with sour cream mixture. Spread on guacamole. Top with tomatoes, green onions, Mexican-style cheese blend and black olives.


source: http://allrecipes.com/recipe/23176/seven-layer-dip-ii/, http://allrecipes.com/recipe/15340/mexican-layered-dip/