Cream of Fennel Soup with Honey and Thyme

Serves 4

To make this vegetarian, just use vegetable stock instead of chicken stock. The Pernod is optional, but it boosts the anise seed flavour of the fennel.

for the soup:
50 g (2 tablespoons) butter
olive oil
3 or 4 medium leeks, white and light green parts only, chopped (300 g/3 cups prepped)
2 celery stalks, chopped
2 fennel bulbs, chopped
1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme, plus extra to garnish
salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 garlic cloves, chopped
2 medium potatoes, peeled and chopped
750 ml to 1 litre (3 to 4 cups) chicken stock
3 tablespoons Pernod (optional)
125 ml (1/2 cup) double cream
honey, to garnish

for the herb croutons:
4 slices of white bread, crusts removed
olive oil
1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme
salt and freshly ground black pepper

Melt the butter over a medium heat in a pot along with a splash of olive oil to stop the butter from burning. Add in the chopped leeks, celery, fennel and thyme and season generously with salt and pepper. Cover the pot and cook the vegetables for 15 minutes, until they’ve softened but haven’t browned. Add in the garlic and cook, uncovered, for 1 minute more. Add in the potatoes, then pour in 750 ml of stock. Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes.

Meanwhile, to make the herb croutons, cut the bread into cubes. Heat some olive oil in a frying pan over a medium heat, then add in the bread cubes, thyme and salt and pepper, stirring to make sure all the bread gets coated in oil. Fry the bread for 5 to 10 minutes, tossing the croutons around now and then, until they’re golden brown and crispy. Keep a close eye on the croutons while they’re cooking to make sure they’re not burning and adjust the heat accordingly if it looks like they are. Set aside.

When the soup is done simmering, either pour it into a blender or use a hand-held immersion blender to whizz it to a smooth puree. Stir in the Pernod, if using, and the cream. Taste to check for seasoning as well as consistency — if it’s too thick, add some or all of the remaining 250 ml (1 cup) of stock. Ladle the soup into bowls, then drizzle with a spiral of honey. Pile some croutons on top, then garnish with thyme leaves and serve.


source: http://edible-ireland.com/2011/09/21/cream-of-fennel-soup-with-honey-and-thyme/

Notes from first time making it: Came out very good but a bit too much potato and too much oil in the croutons. Should add the Penrod next time too