Pizza Hut Personal Pan Pizza

ingredients:
1 cup warm water (105 degrees F)
1/3 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 1/4 cups flour before kneading (1/2 cup to add during/after)
1 tablespoon sugar
1 package dry yeast (2 1/4 teaspoons)
2 tablespoons olive oil (for dough)
6 tablespoons olive oil (2 tablespoons per pan)
4 tablespoons butter

directions:
Put yeast, sugar, salt, and dry milk in a large (2 qt.) bowl. Add water and stir to mix well. Allow to sit for two minutes. Add oil and stir again. Add flour and stir until dough forms and flour is absorbed. 

Turn out on to a flat surface and knead for about 10 minutes. Divide dough into three balls. In three 9" cake pans, put 1 Oz. of oil in each making sure it is spread evenly. Using a rolling pin, roll out each dough ball to about a 9" circle. Place in cake pans. 

Lightly spray top with olive oil. Place in oven at lowest temperature (95 degrees or so) for 40 minutes to an hour.

Assemble pizza. Brush crust edge with butter.


For Each Nine Inch Pizza: Preheat oven to 475 degrees F Spoon 1/3 cup sauce on dough and spread to within 1" of edge. Distribute 1 1/2 Oz. shredded mozzarella cheese on sauce. Place toppings of your choice in this order: Pepperoni or Ham Vegetables Meats (cooked ground sausage or beef) Top with 3 Oz. mozzarella cheese Cook until cheese is bubbling and outer crust is brown.


source: http://www.cdkitchen.com/recipes/recs/525/Pizza_Hut_Original_Pan_Pizza41605.shtml

Tips: Let some cheese touch the side of the pan.

Tips: Make fairy dust. A mixture of italian seasoning oregano, basil, garlic, marjoram, parmesan, ground up the best you can into a dust.

Tip: Put some cheese on top of your toppings.
Tip: Just enough sauce to cover the dough.



The secret to the taste of Pizza Hut pizza is the "fairy dust". Each pizza is sprinkled with a dusting of Parmesan and "italian seasoning" before baking. When you open your mouth to take a bite, you will breath in a breath that will carry the odors of the spices and toppings into your nasal cavity where the smell will enhance your taste experience. 

Try using 1/3 of the dough and make some breadsticks. Add a little more salt, garlic powder, and come minced up mozzarella cheese. Knead it well to mix. Butter the pan, butter the tops and grate some parm cheese on as well. Let them rise just like the pizza dough and cook the same.



Just a little snipet of info...The water is 102F, mixed slow for 10mins, cut into portions. the portions are pp-5oz, bt-6oz, sm-9oz in a 9in pan, med-12oz in a 12in pan, and lg- 25oz in a 15in pan. The pans are oiled with soy bean oil, portions rolled and placed in the pans, the pans are then covered and placed in a heated cabinet at 95F for 45 minutes. Then the dough is ready for sauce and toppings. The dough is typically 3/4" laying in the pan. Next time you eat at PH look at the inside wall of the pan and you will notice lines engraved in the wall. That is what those lines are for; to determine when the dough is ready to come out of the heated cabinet. If you want dough that is a twin to PH this is how it is done. Don't ask me how I know.



Notes from making:

Reduce to 1 tablespoon oil in the pan. Hard to tell when they are done in the oven, I took mine out a bit early. I think this would work better with our normal dough recipe just put into a pan. Possibly using the oven rise method, maybe not.