RECIPE (16 breadsticks)

INGREDIENTS

For the Dough
1/4 cup warm water (105 F)
1 package (.25 oz) active dry yeast (2 1/4 teaspoons)
4 1/2 cups all purpose flour, plus more if needed
2 TB butter, softened (not melted)
2 TB white sugar
1 TB fine salt
1 1/4 cups + 2 TB warm water
oil spray

For the Topping
4 TB melted butter
1/2 tsp coarse kosher salt
1/4 tsp garlic powder
pinches of grated Parmesan cheese
pinches of dried oregano

DIRECTIONS

1. Sprinkle yeast into 1/4 cup warm water.  Let sit about 10 minutes, until foamy. 
2. Slowly add flour, butter, sugar, fine salt, and warm water (1 1/4 cups + 2 TB).  Mix until dough forms. Dough should be just a little bit sticky, but still able to form a ball.  If needed, add a little bit of flour at a time until your dough reaches right consistency.

3. Knead dough by hand on lightly floured surface for about 5 minutes, or until dough gets smooth and soft.  Roll dough into a 2-foot log.  With sharp knife, cut into 16 even pieces.  Keep pieces covered with cloth.  Knead each piece slightly and shape into 7-inch long breadstick.  Place breadsticks 2 in. apart on parchment-lined baking sheet.  Spray each piece with oil and cover with cloth.  Let rise in draft-free, warm spot until doubled.  About 45 min to 1 hour.

Preheat oven to 400F.  Brush breadsticks with half of the melted butter and sprinkle with kosher salt evenly.  Bake on lower middle rack until lightly golden, about 13-14 minutes.  Watch closely to prevent over browning.

With breadsticks still hot on parchment-lined sheet, brush with remaining melted butter.  Sprinkle evenly with garlic, parmesan, and oregano.

Serve up while still warm!

source: http://chewoutloud.com/2012/08/24/those-famous-breadsticks-or-better/



Notes from first time making: Putting it on the lower rack made the bottoms come out overdone. Tried slower rising and then freezing some of them, haven't cooked those yet.

Don't overcook them! You want them chewy on the inside. Just a bit golden brown is done (or maybe cook them under a higher heat?)