French Baquettes (Sandwich Rolls)

Starter
1/2 cup cool water
1 cup King Arthur Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
1/8 teaspoon instant yeast
Dough
All of the starter
3 1/2 cups King Arthur Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
1 cup lukewarm water
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/4 teaspoon instant yeast


1) Mix the starter ingredients till smooth, cover, and let rest at room temperature overnight.

2) Next day, mix the starter with the remaining ingredients, kneading until the dough is nice and springy, but not totally smooth. 

3) Place the dough in a lightly greased bowl, cover, and let it rise for 3 hours, gently deflating it and turning it over after 1 hour, and again after 2 hours.

3) Divide the dough in half, and shape each half into a rough oval. Wait 15 minutes, then fold each oval lengthwise, sealing the edge, and use cupped fingers to gently roll each piece into a long (about 17") log. Place the loaves onto a lightly greased or parchment-lined pan, cover, and let them rise* till they're puffy but not doubled, about 2 to 2 1/2 hours. Towards the end of the rising time, preheat the oven to 425°F. VERY gently, use a sharp knife or razor blade to make three diagonal 1/3"-deep slashes in each loaf. Mist the loaves heavily with warm water. Bake the baguettes for 22 to 28 minutes, till they're golden brown. Take the baguettes off the pan and place them right on the oven rack. Turn off the oven, crack the door open about 2", and let the baguettes cool completely in the oven.

*For extra-crisp baguettes, cover the shaped loaves, let them rise for 30 minutes, then refrigerate overnight. Next day, take them out of the refrigerator and let them rest at room temperature, covered, for about 3 hours, or until they're nice and puffy. Then bake as directed above.



source: http://www.kingarthurflour.com/recipes/french-baguettes-recipe


Notes from first time making
- Don't refrigrate the starter! Leave it out
- Dividend it into 3 rolls and they were not quite wide enough and a bit too long. 4 rolls might be a better number.
- Tried to cut slits into top but ended up deflating the dough some, need a sharper knife for this.
- Flavour was great but bread was a little too dense, a baking stone preheated in the oven should fix this.