Queso

Cook sausage
Saute garlic, onion, jalapenos with sausage
Set aside.
make roux in sausage grease. Add 1 teaspoon corn starch. Maybe some butter if needed.
whisk!
Add in cream. Whisk!
Turn temperature down to super low. Otherwise the cheese gets all melty and stringy. Takes a while.
Add in grated cheese
Add back in sausge and garlic/onion/jalapenos

Saute some garlic, onion, jalapenos or chipotle and add chorizo until cooked. Drain and set aside.
Make a Roux, 2 tbsp (equal parts flour and butter combined in hot pot)
Once it's thick and light brown, add a big can of condensed milk and have another can ready if it gets too thick
lower the heat. More. Lower. Seriously. do you want that shit to get all oily and separate? Prolly not.
You impatient bastard. just take it off the heat.
Add grated cheddar, jack and asadero until melted. maybe a little cream cheese too. There's probably some in the back of the fridge next to the yogurt I always forget to take to work.
Add the peppers and chorizo and stir it up!



I discovered Velveeta at age 8 or 9. I began mixing cans of stuff with Velveeta bricks and eating it with chips (all of it). At age 17, I discovered the Food Network and saw that guy with the speech impediment and weird eyeballs (tyler florence?) make queso from actual cheese and I do that now too. Real Cheese Queso: make a roux and add condensed milk or heavy cream. Slowly add grated cheddar, jack, or whatever cheese make you tingly in your private parts. Stir on very low heat until melted. Add your favorite peppers, salsa, black beans or whatever the fuck you want. it's your queso! Eat that shit with chips, tortillas or just a fucking spoon.


ref: http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/dc5pt/i_make_good_queso_dip_ama/


use fresh chopped chiles and shit. mix it with a basic cheese sauce made with real cream, not milk. Fuck milk.
Try it with crema instead of cream sometime.

What the hell? Why are you draining the fat from the chorizo when that with some flour will make a kickass roux and have twice the flavor of any plain old butter roux?


Some say to just use heavy cream instead of condensed milk...hm


Condensed milk is too sweet used heavy cream

And use sharp cheddar not mild